# Contents

## R-scripts to prepare the data and .xml files

`delta_o_18.R`: script to prepare and plot the Delta 18O data from the Supplementary Data to _NGRIP Members, Nature 431, 147 - 151 (09 September 2004); doi:10.1038/nature02805_.

`10_C14_dates_v3.R`: prepare and calibrate C14 data, plot.
	
`11_subset_outlines.R`: load outlines, combine with C14 data, harmonics calibration, PCA.
	
`11_2_plot_subset_outlines.R`: plot outlines and key sites.

(`12_00_FUNCTION_plot_different_age_scalings.R`: optional function for `12_fill_BEAST2_scripts.R` to visualize the impact of different ways to scale the age information.)

`12_fill_BEAST2_scripts.R`: script to fill the BEAST2-xml files with data. 

## .xml files used in the paper + contraband.jar needed for inference

The .xml scripts generated with `12_fill_BEAST2_scripts.R` have to be run with BEAST2 using the contraband.jar-file via the command line (e.g. `java -jar contraband.jar 32_09_ULNC_FBD_skyline_age_uncertainty_underPrior.xml`, or by submitting the .sh file generated with this file to the HPC. Make sure that the path-names are correct.). 

`./new_xmls` contains all BEAST2 scripts and the output MCC trees from this study.

`contraband.jar` is the Java .jar-file which has to be used to run the xml scripts using the contraband package for Brownian Motion (see `./new_xmls/run_BLANK.sh`).

## R-scripts to analyse and visualise the output
The following scripts need the output generated by the .xml files. Due to the size of the .log files generated by the .xmls, they are not provided on this repository. The .tre files, however, are.

`13_LOCAL_move_converged_runs.R`: script to check the (downloaded) .log-files whether prior, likelihood, and posterior have converged/ESS>>200. If yes, moves scripts and output to `./new_xmls/done` folder, if no, creates "resume.sh" file to resume job on HPC. 

`14_logfiles.R`: script to load .log-files of converged runs and summarize evolutionary rates and variances.
	
`15_plot_Skyline.R`: plots skyline results for NCAT2 clock model.
	
`15_plot_Skyline_ULNC.R`: plots skyline results for ULNC model.
	
`15_plot_Skyline_underPrior.R`: plots skyline results under the prior.
	
`15_plot_Tree.R`: script to create MCC trees of converged runs, plot different summaries.
